all right how much saliva does your body
produce a day can sweat give away your
emotions how many skins will you shed
throughout your life the human body is a
mystery but no one says you can't reveal
some of its secrets cuz here we go your
body produces two to four pints of
saliva every day it helps fight off
infection in your mouth and digest food
glands producing saliva are not only at
the bottom of your mouth but also on the
insides of your cheeks surprised sweat
is more than just your body's air
conditioning system if you sweat because
you're afraid ashamed or anxious the
scent will inform those around you about
your emotional state by the way there
are between two and five million sweat
glands on your body they produce two
different kinds of sweat stress sweat
and regular one stress-related sweat has
fatty acids and proteins in it and the
regular one is mostly made up of water
salt and a tiny bit of other substances
there are seven octillion atoms in your
body yep that's seven followed by 27
zeros countable pro midre phobia is the
fear of body smells
your brain is up to 80% water and it's
very important to keep it hydrated your
teeth are the only body part they can't
repair itself well then don't forget to
brush your hair nose when you're asleep
and tracks your sleeping pattern if you
wake up too early or go to bed very late
your hair will show it
stress and fear can speed up earwax
production
your lips look red because there is a
great concentration of tiny blood
capillaries right below the skin all
living creatures on earth are relatives
to some extent for example you share
most of your DNA with Apes cats mice and
cows you also have something in common
with bananas 1% of your DNA is the same
no matter how hard you try you won't be
able to tickle yourself you'll always
know the exact tickling time place and
manner unlike when someone else is
tickling you relaxing music slows your
heart rate down and upbeat and energetic
tunes speed the pulse up even though
some animals may look as if they're
crying people are the only living beings
that can produce emotional tears other
creatures shed tears to lubricate their
eyes you're more likely to have a bad
dream if you're sleeping in a too hot or
too cold room one in 200 to 500 people
has an extra rib called cervical this
bone rarely bothers its owners and the
person may not even know they have it
if you walk for 12 hours a day it would
take you a bit less than 700 days to
travel around the world
by age 60 most people lose half of their
taste buds getting back to bones for a
second you have more than 200 of them in
your body and a quarter of them are in
your feet that's why if those bones
aren't aligned properly it has an effect
on the entire body each taste bud
functions as a mini-computer it consists
of up to 100 cells that analyze taste
information there's no scientific proof
that if you shave your hair it'll grow
back darker and thicker than before keep
in mind that ATMs are as dirty as public
toilets when researchers took swabs from
ATMs keyboards they found tons of
harmful bacteria your nose remembers
more than 50 thousand different smells
that's why when you hear such phrases as
hot chocolate a new car summer rain you
immediately recall the smell when you
blink you not only keep your eyes clean
and moist you also take a micro nap
researchers from Washington University
have discovered that blinking sharpens
attention and serves as a tiny recharge
not only your fingerprints are unique
your tongue and lip prints palm prints
teeth and ear lobes can also be used to
identify you the left lung isn't as
heavy and large as the right one because
it has to leave some room for your heart
ah dirty hair helps the environment huh
scalp oils absorb ozone at ground level
it's a bad air pollutant your stomach
changes its lining every three to four
days otherwise powerful gastric acids
would eat through its walls and you
would digest yourself
people eat more proteins today which may
be the reason why finger and toenails
grow much faster these days than they
did 50 years ago the appendix actually
benefits your health this organ protects
good bacteria in the gut if something
goes wrong the bacteria that was
previously hiding in the appendix can
repopulate the digestive system the
human body emits visible light which
means that you do glow even better here
the brightest at about 4 p.m. and your
glow is the least visible at 10 a.m.
unfortunately this glowing is a thousand
times less intense than what your eyes
can see the skin is the thinnest on your
eyelids and the thickest on your palms
and the soles of your feet your skin
regenerates every 27 to 30 days it means
that throughout life you'll shed about
1,000 skins by the age of 60 40 percent
of women and 60 percent of men start to
snore on average snoring doesn't get
louder than 60 decibels which is as loud
as a regular conversation but sometimes
the noise level can reach 80 decibels
that's as loud as a food blender and 85
decibels can cause harm to your ears and
your marriage get your small intestine
is on average four times the length of
your body the thigh bone is the
strongest one in your body it's tougher
than steel and concrete and can support
30 times the weight of an adult person
people have more than five basic senses
there's also the sense of space sense of
pain sense of balance sense of time
sense of temperature around and in the
body yeah you get the idea what they
sometimes lack is common sense
scientists have found out that sitting
and looking upward makes it easier to
recall positive memories but if you need
to remember something bad you should sit
and look downward your feet have a half
a million sweat glands on them those can
produce more than a pint of sweat a day
and some stinky socks to your pinky is
responsible for more than 50% of your
hand strength short but powerful all
muscles in your body are connected to
bones at two ends that's how they pull
and create motion but there's one
exception
it's your Tom on one side it's connected
to a part of your neck but there's
nothing connecting the other side the
average person has about 250 hairs per
eyebrow but some individuals can have as
many as 1100 hairs in total um speaking
of eyebrows they prevent raindrops and
sweat from getting in your eyes and
their arched shape makes the liquid
slide to the sides of your face
even if fingerprints are damaged they
always go back in the way they used to
be your skeletal cells never stop
regenerating that's why you'll get a
completely new skeleton every 10 years
or so this process slows down with age
though and the regeneration takes longer
that's why bones become thinner people
are taller in the morning during the day
the cartilage around the bones gets
compressed which makes you shorter in
the evening when you're at rest your
liver is the organ that gets the largest
blood supply by the way the liver is
also the biggest solid organ in your
body an adult person takes 12 to 16
breaths a minute it adds up to 17,000 to
23,000 breaths a day
blood vessels may be tiny but if you
stretch the whole network their length
would be more than 60,000 miles it's
more than twice the distance around the
earth
there are also almost 700 muscles in
your body the smallest of them is in the
middle of your ear its main purpose is
to stabilize the stay piece the tiniest
bone in your body it's responsible for
transmitting sound waves to your inner
ear people find it hard to recognize
someone they know if they're shown an
image of this person without eyebrows it
means that brows are more important for
face recognition than eyes blondes have
the biggest number of hair follicles
around 146,000 the second place belongs
to people with black hair they have 110
follicles brown haired individuals lag
behind with 100,000 hair follicles with
86,000 follicles on average redheads
have the least dense hair most people
are trichromats they see three primary
colors blue yellow and red but there are
some with a fourth cone cell in their
retina they can distinguish four primary
colors blue yellow red and green it
makes the world look brighter to them
feet can become bigger ligaments and
tendons in them weaken with time which
makes the arches flatter and feet wider
and longer the stomach in your throat
feeling you experience while riding a
roller coaster is indeed your inside
shifting some of your organs like your
intestines or stomach are connected
rather loosely but don't worry there's
no harm in having some fun afterward
everything kind of slides back in place
[Music]